---
layout: single
title:  "Chapter 1-3"
author: Hazel
date:   2023-10-25 18:30:00 -0500
categories: journal
read_time: false
show_date: true
---

### Aftermath of the Wolf Attack

The party successfully fends off the wolves - realizing the wolves were attempting to reach the well concealing a bucket filled with meat. Schmead managed to put some of the wolves to sleep. Meanwhile, Jasiri threw one of the wolves into the well to remove it from the fight. Vaelyn wanted to kill the two sleeping wolves, but Hazel plead with him to set them free instead. Jasiri lifted the wolf out of the well and set it free as well. 

Guards appear on the scene after the wolves dispersed and thanked the party for the help. Having figured out Tobias’ plan, they warn the guards and the mayor and move to investigate Tobias’s house. 

They find the home empty, discovering Tobias has fled the town with many necessities and Hilda’s stolen gem and map. 

While investigating the house, the party discovers there are two death certificates with the last name Armin listed - likely his parents based on the dates. They died in a place called Norrholm - a town victim to a titan attack 15 years ago. They later learn from the mayor that Tobias also has the last name Armin, and was originally from Norrholm. He came to Jorren's Rest after surviving the Titan attack 15 years ago. 

While speaking with the mayor and the guards, the party learned that the evidence locker had a missing item - a large bag of money that had been accumulating for years. Tobias was the only one with access to this locker and had stolen the coin for his travels. 

The mayor thanks the party for protecting the town and offers a free night at the Grasshopper Inn. There are only three rooms available - Hazel panics and demands a room to herself and the party obliges. 

The party discusses whether they should risk going after him. Hazel and Schmead are hesitant to travel at night but Jasiri recommends they rest to gather their strength. Hilda agrees, noting that the last part of the spell to activate the gemstone was never revealed, and that Tobias wouldn’t be getting very far without it. When discussing travelling through the night, Excalibur says we wouldn’t have much to worry about if we had hunter friends who knew the area well… Before bidding Jasiri goodnight. Hazel, however, thanks Jasiri for saving the wolf from the well and bids him goodnight.

Torren gives thank you/apology notes to people in the party and a few people in town. 

Hazel reads her note in private and cries. She leaves all the lights on in her room throughout the night. Jasiri doesn’t go to bed right away and ends up staying at the bar until all the others have gone to sleep - contemplating the events and conversations of the evening. 

### Tracking the Thief
In the morning, Schmead mentions he is afraid of cats and tells a horrific story of a pair of circus performers, a dwarf and gnome, with two albino lions that attacked and killed them… Digmund and Boyd.

The party tracks Tobias through the woods. They stop by the hunters' house and Torren leaves an apology note on their door, since they seem to be away. Torren claims it’s important for people to communicate how they feel.

While walking through the forest, Jasiri notices that the trail starts to feel repetitive as he sees similar landmarks over and over. Taking a look around, Torren and Vaelyn notice similarities to elven magic that protects their villages. Hazel finds the magic of the forest very familiar...

The party stops as a squirrel starts to throw acorns at Jasiri. Hazel approaches the creature curiosly and casts Speak With Animals. She finds out the squirrel, **Rudy**, has a friend in danger. Following him, Hazel leads the party to a Firbolg man struggling in a trap. She stalks over to him and the man looks up in horror at Hazel’s darkened face and begs for help. She pulls out a dagger slowly and cuts the man free. He introduces himself as **Quentin**, thanks the party for their help and apologizes for his initial fear of Hazel. He gives her his pair of *Big Cat Slippers* as thanks. Quentin explains that he and his friend Rudy are a traveling pair of merchants who typically trades with people who live off the beaten path. Hazel gladly trades a few shiny rocks with him back and forth, very excited about his wares. 

Quentin explains that the forest magic protects a local witch’s domain. A witch by the name of **Lavender** inhabits this place and Quentin regularly trades with her and considers her a friend. He offers to lead the party through the forest. 

He eventually guides them through the magic of the forest to a cave mouth. To the side is a large pile of dirt covered with trinkets, flowers, and gifts of various quality. After inspection, Vaelyn recognizes this is a grave. Vaelyn leaves embalming herbs and pays his respects. Meanwhile, at the cave entrance, the party notices footprints that appear to be evidence of a scuffle. Among the footprints, they spot ones of human size - likely Tobias’. Concerned by the evidence at the cave mouth, Quentin calls out and a Kobold appears, happy to see him, but hesitant of the new people he brings with him. 

The Kobold explains that a human man tried to break into the cave but was overrun by the Kobold’s attack. He is currently in captivity in the cave. 

Quentin asks where Lavender is and they say “Auntie Lav” is gone, and motions over to the unmarked grave. Quentin gives his condolences and asks if our party can pass. Excalibur offers to heal any of the wounded from last night. They agree and guide us through the cave that is filled with many intricate traps. 

Quentin splits off to go talk to the kobolds while the party goes to speak to Tobias. In a small section of the cave guarded by a pair of kobolds including the one in the pink dress from the day before (Jezebel, real name **Skunkdress**), Tobias is captured and bound by vines. 

Jasiri approaches Tobias and raises his large warhammer against Tobias’s head to question him. With no hope of escape, Tobias confessed to many white collar crimes he had committed over the years and shows no remorse. His family died in the attack on Norrholm by the titan [**Prukal**](/titans/#prukal). His paranoia around the titans as a result motivated him to seek a means to leave Jorren's Rest, and to always have enough money to keep moving since being stationary is an invitation for the inevitable. The next titan attack is always coming, and Caius is overdue. His failed efforts to join a ships crew led him to embezzling money and accepting bribes as a means of eventually escaping. When he learned of the magical airship that Hilda wanted, he couldn't resist the temptation to take what he had always wanted… and if it wasn’t for these meddling adventurers, he would have gotten away with it too. The map guided him through the strange forest to the hidden ship, but he didn’t expect the Kobolds to be guarding it. 

The party discussed what to do with Tobias, eventually settling on taking him back to the authorities.

### Entering the Ship
The party comes to a larger room filled with many things - stolen things - that have been stockpiled here. We find Quentin talking with a Kobold who is going over the new wares Quentin has to offer. A kobold named **Boomspear** has taken over leadership of the Kobolds since Lavender’s passing. Boomspear mentions she had strange markings all up her one side but she took care of them and kept them safe and fed. She was an elderly human lady, who one morning just didn't wake up. Since she passed away they resorted to thievery to survive. 

**Author Note:** All Kobold names are based on traps they’ve invented. 
{: .notice--danger}

Hazel asks to see her room deeper in the cave and promises to be respectful. Quentin smiles and says Hazel reminds him of Lavender. Hazel smiles softly - a reaction she wouldn’t normally have. Boomspear agrees and reveals a strange wooden door that he slides away. 

Inside the room is a dark metal hallway filled with overgrown plants. Boomspear warns the party not to touch anything because the plants don't like strangers. He leads the party to a living space that is filled with drying herbs, a cauldron, books, and bottles. This is clearly where Lavender spent most of her time. 

The space is filled with strange metal doors that won’t open but Hilda is beaming with excitement. She tells the party to follow her and one by one they descend to what appears to be the ship’s bridge. 

She takes out the gem and places it inside of a central console. She sits on the ground and asks that the party join her. Sitting all in a circle, she pours each individual a glass of wine to toast with. With the sharing of wine, the ritual to activate the gem was complete. 

The ship comes to life and a diamond-like hologram appears in the center of the room. A voice sounds all around the party and accepts Hilda Skyhelm as the captain who then introduces each member of the party as crew members. The voice introduces itself as the Nautical Operator and Vehicle Administrator - **NOVA**.

After getting an idea of the ships capabilities from NOVA, Hilda raises her glass. She has asked a lot of the party already, but she reveals the true purpose for this ship… “*we are going to kill a fucking titan!*”
